GNU Free Documentation License protects the freedom, it is compatible
with Debian Free Software Guidelines

(2) The Invariant Sections — Main Objection Against GFDL

    One of the most widespread objections against GFDL is that GFDL permits
    works covered under it to include certain sections, designated as
    invariant. The text inside such sections can not be changed or removed
    from the work in future.

    GFDL places considerable constraints on the purpose of texts that can be
    included in an invariant section. According to GFDL all invariant sections
    must be also secondary sections, i.e. they meet the following definition

    A Secondary Section is a named appendix or a front-matter section
    of the Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the
    publishers or authors of the Document to the Document's overall subject
    (or to related matters) and contains nothing that could fall directly
    within that overall subject. [...] The relationship could be a matter
    of historical connection with the subject or with related matters,
    or of legal, commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position
    regarding them.

    Consequently the secondary sections (and in particular the invariant
    sections) are allowed to include only personal position of the authors
    or the publishers to some subject. It is useless and unethical to modify
    somebody else's personal position; in some cases this is even illegal. For
    such texts Richard Stallman (the founder of the Free Software Movement
    and the GNU project and author of GFDL) says [1]:

        The whole point of those works is that they tell you what somebody thinks
        or what somebody saw or what somebody believes. To modify them is to
        misrepresent the authors; so modifying these works is not a socially
        useful activity. And so verbatim copying is the only thing that people
        really need to be allowed to do.

    This feature of GFDL can be opposed to the following requirement of
    Debian Free Software Guidelines:

3. Derived Works

    The license must allow modifications and derived works, and must allow
    them to be distributed under the same terms as the license of the
    original software.

    It is naive to think that in order to fulfil this requirement of DFSG the
    free licenses have to permit arbitrary modifications. There are several
    licenses that Debian has always acknowledged as free that impose some
    limitations on the permitted modifications. For example the GNU General
    Public License contains the following clause:

    If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run,
    you must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in
    the most ordinary way, to print or display an announcement including an
    appropriate copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or
    else, saying that you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute
    the program under these conditions, and telling the user how to view a
    copy of this License.

    The licenses that contain the so called advertising clause give us
    another example:

    All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
    must display the following acknowledgement: This product includes software
    developed by ...

    Consequently when judging whether some license is free or not, one has
    to take into account what kind of restrictions are imposed and how these
    restrictions fit to the Social Contract of Debian:

4. Our priorities are our users and free software

    We will be guided by the needs of our users and the free software
    community. We will place their interests first in our priorities.

    Currently GFDL is a license acknowledged as free by the great mass of
    the members of the free software community and as a result it is used
    for the documentation of great part of the currently available free
    programs. If Debian decided that GFDL is not free, this would mean that
    Debian attempted to impose on the free software community alternative
    meaning of free software, effectively violating its Social Contract with
    the free software community.

    We should be able to improve the free software and to adapt it to
    certain needs and this stays behind the requirement of DFSG for
    modifiability. GFDL allows everybody who disagrees with a personal
    position expressed in an invariant section to add their own secondary
    section and to describe their objections or additions. This is a
    reasonable method to improve the available secondary sections, a
    method that does not lead to misrepresenting the authors opinion or
    to censorship.

(3) Transparent copies

    Another objections against GFDL is that according to GFDL it is not enough
    to just put a transparent copy of a document alongside with the opaque
    version when you are distributing it (which is all that you need to do
    for sources under the GPL, for example). Instead, the GFDL insists that
    you must somehow include a machine-readable Transparent copy (i.e., not
    allow the opaque form to be downloaded without the transparent form) or
    keep the transparent form available for download at a publicly accessible
    location for one year after the last distribution of the opaque form.

    The following is what the license says (the capitalisations are not from
    the original license):

    You must either include a machine-readable Transparent copy ALONG with
    each Opaque copy, or state IN OR WITH each Opaque copy a computer-network
    location from which the general network-using public has access to
    download using public-standard network protocols a complete Transparent
    copy of the Document, free of added material.

    Consequently the license requires distribution of the transparent form
    ALONG with each opaque copy but not IN OR WITH each opaque copy. It is
    a fact confirmed by Richard Stallman, author of GFDL, and testified by
    the common practice, that as long as you make the source and binaries
    available so that the users can see what's available and take what they
    want, you have done what is required of you. It is up to the user whether
    to download the transparent form.

    If the transparent copy is not distributed along with the opaque copy then
    one must take reasonably prudent steps to ensure that the Transparent
    copy will remain accessible from Internet at a stated location until at
    least one year. In these circumstances the requirement of GPL appears
    to be even more severe — a written offer, valid for at least three
    years, to give any third party a complete machine-readable copy of the
    corresponding source code.

(4) Digital Rights Management

    The third objection against GFDL arises from the measures in
    Section 2 that attempt to overcome Digital Rights Management (DRM)
    technologies. According to some interpretations of the license, it rules
    out distributing copies on DRM-protected media, even if done in such a
    way as to give users full access to a transparent copy of the work; and,
    as written, it also potentially disallows encrypting the documentation,
    or even storing it on a file system that supports permissions.

    In fact, the license says only this:

    You may not use technical measures to obstruct or control the reading
    or further copying of the copies you make or distribute

    This clause disallows the distribution or storage of copies on
    DRM-protected media only if a result of that action will be that the
    reading or further copying of the copies is obstructed or controlled. It
    is not supposed to refer the use of encryption or file access control
    on your own copy.

    Consequently the measures of the license against the DRM technologies are
    only a way to ensure that the users are able to exercise the rights they
    should have according to the license. Because of that, these measures
    serve similar purpose to the measures taken in the GNU General Public
    License against the patents:

    If a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the
    Program by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through
    you, then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would
    be to refrain entirely from distribution of the Program.

    We do not think that this requirement of GPL makes GPL covered programs
    non-free even though it can potentially make a GPL-covered program
    undistributable. Its purpose is against misuse of patents. Similarly,
    we do not think that GFDL covered documentation is non-free because of
    the measures taken in the license against misuse of DRM-protected media.
